todo.md, before:

# todo list
[x] add confirmation env setting to setup guide <br />
 <br />
[ ] try claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219, see [tool_activities.py](./activities/tool_activities.py) <br />
[ ] make agent respond to name of goals and not just numbers <br />
[x] L look at slides <br />
[ ] josh to do fintech scenarios <br />
[ ] expand [tests](./tests/agent_goal_workflow_test.py)<br />
[x] fix logging statements not to be all warn, maybe set logging level to info <br />

[x] create people management scenarios <br />

[ ] 2. Others HR goals:  <br />
-- book work travel <br />
-- check insurance coverages <br />
-- expense management <br />
-- check in on the health of the team <br />


[ ] ask the ai agent how it did at the end of the conversation, was it efficient? successful? insert a search attribute to document that before return
- Insight into the agent’s performance <br />

[ ] non-retry the api key error - "Invalid API Key provided: sk_test_**J..." and "AuthenticationError" <br />
[ ] make it so you can yeet yourself out of a goal and pick a new one <br />

[ ] add visual feedback when workflow starting <br />
[ ] figure out how to allow user to list agents at any time - like end conversation <br />

Commit message:

adding fin goals and tools

todo.md, after:

# todo list
[x] add confirmation env setting to setup guide <br />
 <br />
[ ] try claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219, see [tool_activities.py](./activities/tool_activities.py) <br />
[ ] make agent respond to name of goals and not just numbers <br />
[x] L look at slides <br />
[ ] josh to do fintech scenarios <br />
[ ] expand [tests](./tests/agent_goal_workflow_test.py)<br />
[x] fix logging statements not to be all warn, maybe set logging level to info <br />

[x] create people management scenarios <br />

[ ] 2. Others HR goals:  <br />
- book work travel <br />
- check insurance coverages <br />
- expense management <br />
- check in on the health of the team <br />

[ ] fintech goals <br />
- Fraud Detection and Prevention - The AI monitors transactions across accounts, flagging suspicious activities (e.g., unusual spending patterns or login attempts) and autonomously freezing accounts or notifying customers and compliance teams.<br />
- Personalized Financial Advice - An AI agent analyzes a customer’s financial data (e.g., income, spending habits, savings, investments) and provides tailored advice, such as budgeting tips, investment options, or debt repayment strategies.<br />
- Portfolio Management and Rebalancing - The AI monitors a customer’s investment portfolio, rebalancing it automatically based on market trends, risk tolerance, and financial goals (e.g., shifting assets between stocks, bonds, or crypto).<br />
- money movement - start money transfer <br />
- [x] account balance - <br />


[ ] ask the ai agent how it did at the end of the conversation, was it efficient? successful? insert a search attribute to document that before return <br />
- Insight into the agent’s performance <br />

[ ] non-retry the api key error - "Invalid API Key provided: sk_test_**J..." and "AuthenticationError" <br />
[ ] make it so you can yeet yourself out of a goal and pick a new one <br />

[ ] add visual feedback when workflow starting <br />
[ ] figure out how to allow user to list agents at any time - like end conversation <br />
