notes/experiments/001-basic-workflow.md, before:

# Experiment 001: Basic Workflow Setup

**Date**: 

## Objective
To understand and implement a basic workflow using the Temporal AI Agent system, establishing a foundation for more complex experiments.

## Setup

### Environment
- [ ] Local development environment
- [ ] Dependencies installed
- [ ] Temporal server running

### Configuration
```yaml
# Add any relevant configuration here
```

## Implementation Steps

1. **Initial Setup**
   - [ ] Task
   - Notes:

2. **Workflow Definition**
   - [ ] Task
   - Code changes:
   ```python
   # Add code snippets here
   ```

3. **Agent Integration**
   - [ ] Task
   - Notes:

## Observations

### What Worked Well
- Point 1
- Point 2

### Challenges Encountered
- Challenge 1
  - Solution/Workaround:
- Challenge 2
  - Solution/Workaround:

## Key Learnings

1. Learning 1
   - Details...
2. Learning 2
   - Details...

## Questions to Explore
- [ ] Question 1
- [ ] Question 2

## Next Steps
- [ ] What to try next
- [ ] Areas to improve

## Resources Used
- Link 1
- Link 2

## Code Snippets and Examples

### Example 1: Description
```python
# Add example code here
```

### Example 2: Description
```python
# Add example code here
```

## Notes for Future Reference
- Important note 1
- Important note 2

---
Last Updated:

Commit message:

[documentation] Add experiment notes for running tests and update workflow doc

notes/experiments/001-basic-workflow.md, after:

# Experiment 001: Setup and run locally out of the box demo

**Date**:

## Objective
To understand what's involved in setting up and running the Temporal AI Agent locally out of the box demo.

## Setup

### Environment
- [ ] Local development environment
  - I'm using asdf (already installed)to manage python versions
  - Temporal is already installed using brew, `brew install temporal`
- [ ] Temporal server running
  - Start server using make commands: `make setup-temporal-mac`

### Configuration
```yaml
# Add any relevant configuration here
```

## Implementation Steps

1. **Initial Setup**
   - [ ] Task
   - Notes:

2. **Workflow Definition**
   - [ ] Task
   - Code changes:
   ```python
   # Add code snippets here
   ```

3. **Agent Integration**
   - [ ] Task
   - Notes:

## Observations

### What Worked Well
- Point 1
- Point 2

### Challenges Encountered
- Challenge 1
  - Solution/Workaround:
- Challenge 2
  - Solution/Workaround:

## Key Learnings

1. Learning 1
   - Details...
2. Learning 2
   - Details...

## Questions to Explore
- [ ] Question 1
- [ ] Question 2

## Next Steps
- [ ] What to try next
- [ ] Areas to improve

## Resources Used
- Link 1
- Link 2

## Code Snippets and Examples

### Example 1: Description
```python
# Add example code here
```

### Example 2: Description
```python
# Add example code here
```

## Notes for Future Reference
- Important note 1
- Important note 2

---
Last Updated:
